---
layout: post
comments: true
title:  "Disqus"
date:   2016-04-22
categories: Tutorial
---

Disqus. Oh man where do I start, this task has taken me around ages to complete. There have been many problems that I've encountered along the way and I thought I might share these with you.
The integration of the actual commenting section was not difficult, the comment counter was the hard part. What I will be talking about are the problems I had experienced while trying to get the comment counter working.

Alright shall we begin. Firstly, the code 'data-disqus-url' was a major issue for me.

Originally I had the code setup like this: 
<code>
data-disqus-url = ' post.url | prepend: site.baseurl | prepend: site.url ' 
</code>

While the post.html file was setup like this: 
<code>
var disqus_url = ' page.url | prepend: site.baseurl | prepend: site.url ';
</code>

You would think that this would work perfectly fine, however I had not realised that in my '_config.yml' I had included a setting that was: ' baseurl: "/" '
Because of this there was an extra '/' while and the page url did not align properly, instead it was displayed as such: 'http://justinjameslee.github.io//documentation/2016/04/21/welcome.html'.
As such the comment counter would not work at all. If we have a similar problem to this or perhaps your comment counter is stuck at '0' I urge you to read on as I will present a solution to for you.

To solve this what had to be done was firstly scrap the idea of 'data-disqus-url' and instead resort to 'data-disqus-identifier'.
To set it up firstly copy the example here go to your post.html file then find a suitable place to place the comment section. Please note that the variables are missing { { } }. Please place these inside of the quotation marks (')

<code>

       /* * * CONFIGURATION VARIABLES * * */
       
       var disqus_shortname = 'site.disqus_shortname';  
       
       var disqus_title = 'page.title'; 
       
       var disqus_identifier = 'page.url'; 
 
       /* * * DON'T EDIT BELOW THIS LINE * * */
       (function() {
           var dsq = document.createElement('script'); dsq.type = 'text/javascript'; dsq.async = true;
           dsq.src = '//' + disqus_shortname + '.disqus.com/embed.js';
           (document.getElementsByTagName('head')[0] || document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]).appendChild(dsq);
       })();

" var disqus_shortname = ' site.disqus_shortname '; " site.disqus_shortname is taking data directly from your '_config.yml' file. Make sure you have it referenced there as disqus_shortname: EXAMPLE


" var disqus_identifier = " page.url "; " Here the identifier will be unique each time as each post's page url will be separate as such this makes it a ideal and short consequently resulting in a lower chance of errors to occur.

Once you have finished this go to your head.html file and add the following, please note that the variables are also missing { { } }. Please place these inside of the quotation marks (')

        /* Disqus config */
        
        /* * * CONFIGURATION VARIABLES * * */
        
        var disqus_shortname = ' site.disqus_shortname ';
    
        /* * * DON'T EDIT BELOW THIS LINE * * */
        (function () {
            var s = document.createElement('script'); s.async = true;
            s.type = 'text/javascript';
            s.src = '//' + disqus_shortname + '.disqus.com/count.js';
            (document.getElementsByTagName('HEAD')[0] || document.getElementsByTagName('BODY')[0]).appendChild(s);
        }());

After this navigate to your index.html file and add the following with either a paragraph tag, span tag or maybe even an link tag to where you will want your comments to appear

<code>class="disqus-comment-count" data-disqus-identifier=" post.url ">Comments</code>

" data-disqus-identifier=" post.url " Here you are showing where to find the data for the comment counter. The reason why it is 'post.url' and not 'page.url' is that you are taking data from the post's unique url and not the index's url.

By doing this simple fix, I have successfully implemented disqus into my blog. So now you can comment whenever you feel like it :)

Let me know if this post was of any use to you!

PS: I must admit though this was a pretty sloppy tutorial.
